.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.ds Ps PostScript
.if n .po 0
.TH FAX2PS 1 "November 2, 2005" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
fax2ps \- convert a
.SM TIFF
facsimile to compressed \*(Ps\(tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fax2ps
[
.I options
] [
.I file ...\&
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fax2ps
reads one or more
.SM TIFF
facsimile image files and prints a compressed form of
\*(Ps on the standard output that is suitable for printing.
.PP
By default, each page is scaled to reflect the
image dimensions and resolutions stored in the file.
The
.B \-x
and
.B \-y
options can be used to specify the horizontal and vertical
image resolutions (lines/inch), respectively.
If the
.B \-S
option is specified, each page is scaled to fill an output page.
The default output page is 8.5 by 11 inches.
Alternate page dimensions can be specified in inches with the
.B \-W
and
.B \-H
options.
.PP
By default
.I fax2ps
generates \*(Ps for all pages in the file.
The
.B \-p
option can be used to select one or more pages from
a multi-page document.
.PP
.I fax2ps
generates a compressed form of \*(Ps that is
optimized for sending pages of text to a \*(Ps
printer attached to a host through a low-speed link (such
as a serial line).
Each output page is filled with white and then only
the black areas are drawn.
The \*(Ps specification of the black drawing operations
is optimized by using a special font that encodes the
move-draw operations required to fill
the black regions on the page.
This compression scheme typically results in a substantially
reduced \*(Ps description, relative to the straightforward
imaging of the page with a \*(Ps
.I image
operator.
This algorithm can, however, be ineffective
for continuous-tone and white-on-black images.
For these images, it sometimes is more efficient to send
the raster bitmap image directly; see
.BR tiff2ps (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-p " number"
Print only the indicated page.
Multiple pages may be printed by specifying
this option more than once.
.TP 10
.BI \-x " resolution"
Use
.I resolution
as the horizontal resolution, in dots/inch, of the image data.
By default this value is taken from the file.
.TP 10
.BI \-y " resolution"
Use
.I resolution
as the vertical resolution, in lines/inch, of the image data.
By default this value is taken from the file.
.TP 10
.B \-S
Scale each page of image data to fill the output page dimensions.
By default images are presented according to the dimension
information recorded in the 
.SM TIFF
file.
.TP 10
.BI \-W " width"
Use
.I width
as the width, in inches, of the output page.
.TP 10
.BI \-H " height"
Use
.I height
as the height, in inches, of the output page.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Some messages about malformed 
.SM TIFF
images come from the
.SM TIFF
library.
.PP
Various messages about badly formatted facsimile images
may be generated due to transmission errors in received
facsimile.
.I fax2ps
attempts to recover from such data errors by resynchronizing
decoding at the end of the current scanline.
This can result in long horizontal black lines in the resultant
\*(Ps image.
.SH NOTES
If the destination printer supports \*(Ps Level II then
it is always faster to just send the encoded bitmap generated
by the
.BR tiff2ps (1)
program.
.SH BUGS
.I fax2ps
should probably figure out when it is doing a poor
job of compressing the output and just generate 
\*(Ps to image the bitmap raster instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tiff2ps (1),
.BR libtiff (3)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
