.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH FAX2TIFF 1 "November 2, 2005" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
fax2tiff \- create a
.SM TIFF
Class F fax file from raw fax data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fax2tiff
[
.I options
] [
.B \-o
.I output.tif
]
.I input.raw
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fax2tiff
creates a
.SM TIFF
file containing 
.SM CCITT
Group 3 or Group 4 encoded data from one or more files containing ``raw''
Group 3 or Group 4 encoded data (typically obtained directly from a fax modem).
By default, each row of data in the resultant
.SM TIFF
file is 1-dimensionally encoded and
padded or truncated to 1728 pixels, as needed.
The resultant image is a set of low resolution (98 lines/inch)
or medium resolution (196 lines/inch)
pages, each of which is a single strip of data.
The generated file conforms to the
.SM TIFF
Class F (\c
.SM FAX\c
) specification for storing facsimile data.
This means, in particular, that each page of the data does
.B not
include the trailing 
.I "return to control"
(\c
.SM RTC\c
) code; as required
for transmission by the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 specifications.
The old, ``classic'', format is created if the
.B \-c
option is used.
(The Class F format can also be requested with the
.B \-f
option.)
.PP
The default name of the output image is
.IR fax.tif ;
this can be changed with the
.B \-o
option.
Each input file is assumed to be a separate page of facsimile data
from the same document.
The order in which input files are specified on the command
line is the order in which the resultant pages appear in the
output file.
.SH OPTIONS
Options that affect the interpretation of input data are:
.TP
.B \-3
Assume input data is
.SM CCITT
Group 3 encoded (default).
.TP
.B \-4
Assume input data is
.SM CCITT
Group 4 encoded.
.TP
.B \-U
Assume input data is uncompressed (Group 3 or Group 4).
.TP
.B \-1
Assume input data is encoded with the 1-dimensional version of the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Huffman encoding algorithm (default).
.TP
.B \-2
Assume input data is 2-dimensional version of the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Huffman encoding algorithm.
.TP
.B \-P
Assume input data is
.B not
EOL-aligned (default). This option has effect with Group 3 encoded input only.
.TP
.B \-A
Assume input data is EOL-aligned. This option has effect with Group 3
encoded input only.
.TP
.B \-M
Treat input data as having bits filled from most significant bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
) to most least bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
).
.TP
.B \-L
Treat input data as having bits filled from least significant bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
) to most significant bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
) (default).
.TP
.B \-B
Assume input data was encoded with black as 0 and white as 1.
.TP
.B \-W
Assume input data was encoded with black as 1 and white as 0 (default).
.TP
.B \-R
Specify the vertical resolution, in lines/inch, of the input images.
By default input are assumed to have a vertical resolution of 196 lines/inch.
If images are low resolution facsimile, a value of 98 lines/inch should
be specified.
.TP
.B \-X
Specify the width, in pixels, of the input images.
By default input are assumed to have a width of 1728 pixels.
.PP
Options that affect the output file format are:
.TP
.B \-o
Specify the name of the output file.
.TP
.B \-7
Force output to be compressed with the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Huffman encoding algorithm (default).
.TP
.B \-8
Force output to be compressed with the
.SM CCITT
Group 4 Huffman encoding.
.TP
.B \-u
Force output to be uncompressed (Group 3 or Group 4).
.TP
.B \-5
Force output to be encoded with the 1-dimensional version of the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Huffman encoding algorithm.
.TP
.B \-6
Force output to be encoded with the 2-dimensional version of the
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Huffman encoding algorithm (default).
.TP
.B \-a
Force the last bit of each
.I "End Of Line"
(\c
.SM EOL\c
) code to land on a byte boundary (default). This ``zero padding'' will
be reflected in the contents of the
.I Group3Options
tag of the resultant
.SM TIFF
file. This option has effect with Group 3 encoded output only.
.TP
.B \-p
Do not EOL-align output. This option has effect with Group 3 encoded
output only.
.TP
.B \-c
Generate "classic" Group 3 TIFF format.
.TP
.B \-f
Generate TIFF Class F (TIFF/F) format (default).
.TP
.B \-m
Force output data to have bits filled from most significant bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
) to most least bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
).
.TP
.B \-l
Force  output data to have bits filled from least significant bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
) to most significant bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
) (default).
.TP
.B \-r
Specify the number of rows (scanlines) in each strip of data
written to the output file.
By default (or when value
.B 0
is specified),
.I tiffcp
attempts to set the rows/strip
that no more than 8 kilobytes of data appear in a strip (with except of G3/G4
compression schemes). If you specify special value
.B \-1
it will results in infinite number of the rows per strip. The entire image
will be the one strip in that case. This is default in case of G3/G4 output
compression schemes.
.TP
.B \-s
Stretch the input image vertically by writing each input row of
data twice to the output file.
.TP
.B \-v
Force
.I fax2tiff
to print the number of rows of data it retrieved from the input file.
.TP
.B \-z
Force output to be compressed with the LZW encoding.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following warnings and errors come from the decoding
routines in the library.
.PP
.BR "Warning, %s: Premature EOL at scanline %d (x %d).\en" .
The input data had a row that was shorter than the expected width.
The row is padded with white.
.PP
.BR "%s: Premature EOF at scanline %d (x %d).\en" .
The decoder ran out of data in the middle of a scanline.
The resultant row is padded with white.
.PP
.BR "%s: Bad code word at row %d, x %d\en" .
An invalid Group 3 
.I code
was encountered while decoding the input file. 
The row number and horizontal position is given.
The remainder of the input row is discarded, while
the corresponding output row is padded with white.
.PP
.BR "%s: Bad 2D code word at scanline %d.\en" .
An invalid Group 4 or 2D Group 3
.I code
was encountered while decoding the input file. 
The row number and horizontal position is given.
The remainder of the input row is discarded, while
the corresponding output row is padded with white.
.SH BUGS
Input data are assumed to have a a ``top left'' orientation;
it should be possible to override this assumption
from the command line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "\s-1CCITT\s+1 Recommendation T.4"
(Standardization of Group 3 Facsimile Apparatus for Document Transmission).
.PP
.BR "The Spirit of TIFF Class F",
an appendix to the TIFF 5.0 specification prepared by Cygnet Technologies.
.PP
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffdither (1),
.BR tiffgt (1),
.BR libtiff (3)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
