.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH PAL2RGB 1 "September 20, 2005" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
pal2rgb \- convert a palette color
.SM TIFF
image to a full color image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pal2rgb
[
.I options
]
.I input.tif
.I output.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pal2rgb
converts a palette color
.SM TIFF
image to a full color image by
applying the colormap of the palette image to each sample
to generate a full color
.SM RGB
image.
.SH OPTIONS
Options that affect the interpretation of input data are:
.TP
.B \-C
This option overrides the default behavior of
.I pal2rgb
in determining whether or not
colormap entries contain 16-bit or 8-bit values.
By default the colormap is inspected and
if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
the colormap is assumed to have only 8-bit values; otherwise
16-bit values (as required by the
.SM TIFF
specification) are assumed.
The
.B \-C
option can be used to explicitly specify the number of
bits for colormap entries:
.B "\-C 8"
for 8-bit values, 
.B "\-C 16"
for 16-bit values.
.PP
Options that affect the output file format are:
.TP
.B \-p
Explicitly select the planar configuration used in organizing
data samples in the output image:
.B "\-p contig"
for samples packed contiguously, and
.B "\-p separate"
for samples stored separately.
By default samples are packed.
.TP
.B \-c
Use the specific compression algorithm to encoded image data
in the output file:
.B "\-c packbits"
for Macintosh Packbits,
.B "\-c lzw"
for Lempel-Ziv & Welch,
.B "\-c zip"
for Deflate,
.B "\-c none"
for no compression.
If no compression-related option is specified, the input
file's compression algorithm is used.
.TP
.B \-r
Explicitly specify the number of rows in each strip of the
output file.
If the
.B \-r
option is not specified, a number is selected such that each
output strip has approximately 8 kilobytes of data in it.
.SH BUGS
Only 8-bit images are handled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffcp (1),
.BR tiffmedian (1),
.BR libtiff (3)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
