.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFSET 1 "November 21, 2004" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
tiffset \- set a field in a
.SM TIFF
header
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffset
[
.I options
]
.I filename.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffset
sets the value of a
.SM TIFF
header to a specified value.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " dirnumber"
change the current directory (starting at 0).
.TP
.BI \-s " tagnumber" "\fR [\fP" " count" "\fR ]\fP" " value ..."
Set the value of the named tag to the value or values specified.
.TP
.BI \-sd " diroffset"
change the current directory by offset.
.TP
.BI \-sf " tagnumber filename"
Set the value of the tag to the contents of filename.  This option is
supported for ASCII tags only.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example sets the image description tag (270) of a.tif to
the contents of the file descrip:
.RS
.nf
tiffset \-sf 270 descrip a.tif
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following example sets the artist tag (315) of a.tif to the string
``Anonymous'':
.RS
.nf
tiffset \-s 315 Anonymous a.tif
.fi
.RE
.PP
This example sets the resolution of the file a.tif to 300 dpi:
.RS
.nf
tiffset \-s 296 2 a.tif
tiffset \-s 282 300.0 a.tif
tiffset \-s 283 300.0 a.tif
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set the photometric interpretation of the third page of a.tif to
min-is-black (ie. inverts it):
.RS
.nf
tiffset -d 2 -s 262 1 a.tif
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tiffdump (1),
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffcp (1),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
