.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFCMP 1 "November 2, 2005" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
tiffcmp \- compare two
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffcmp
[
.I options
]
.I "file1.tif file2.tif"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffcmp
compares the tags and data in two files created according
to the Tagged Image File Format, Revision 6.0.
The schemes used for compressing data in each file
are immaterial when data are compared\-data are compared on
a scanline-by-scanline basis after decompression.
Most directory tags are checked; notable exceptions are:
.IR GrayResponseCurve ,
.IR ColorResponseCurve ,
and
.IR ColorMap
tags.
Data will not be compared if any of the
.IR BitsPerSample ,
.IR SamplesPerPixel ,
or
.I ImageWidth
values are not equal.
By default,
.I tiffcmp
will terminate if it encounters any difference.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
List each byte of image data that differs between the files.
.TP
.BI \-z " number"
List specified number of image data bytes that differs between the files.
.TP
.B \-t
Ignore any differences in directory tags.
.SH BUGS
Tags that are not recognized by the library are not
compared; they may also generate spurious diagnostics.
.PP
The image data of tiled files is not compared, since the
.I TIFFReadScanline()
function is used.  An error will be reported for tiled files.
.PP
The pixel and/or sample number reported in differences may be off
in some exotic cases. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pal2rgb (1),
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffcp (1),
.BR tiffmedian (1),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
