.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.ds Ps PostScript
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFF2PS 1 "November 2, 2005" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
tiff2ps \- convert a
.SM TIFF
image to \*(Ps\*(Tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiff2ps
[
.I options
]
.I "input.tif ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tiff2ps
reads
.SM TIFF
images and writes \*(Ps or Encapsulated \*(Ps (EPS)
on the standard output.
By default,
.I tiff2ps
writes Encapsulated \*(Ps for the first image in the specified
.SM TIFF
image file.
.PP
By default,
.I tiff2ps
will generate \*(Ps that fills a printed area specified
by the 
.SM TIFF
tags in the input file.
If the file does not contain
.I XResolution
or
.I YResolution
tags, then the printed area is set according to the image dimensions.
The
.B \-w
and
.B \-h
options (see below)
can be used to set the dimensions of the printed area in inches;
overriding any relevant
.SM TIFF
tags.
.PP
The \*(Ps generated for
.SM RGB,
palette, and
.SM CMYK
images uses the
.I colorimage
operator.
The \*(Ps generated for
greyscale and bilevel images
uses the
.I image
operator.
When the
.I colorimage
operator is used, \*(Ps code to emulate this operator
on older \*(Ps printers is also generated.
Note that this emulation code can be very slow.
.PP
Color images with associated alpha data are composited over
a white background.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-1
Generate \*(Ps Level 1 (the default).
.TP
.B \-2
Generate \*(Ps Level 2.
.TP
.B \-3
Generate \*(Ps Level 3. It basically allows one to use the /flateDecode
filter for ZIP compressed TIFF images.
.TP
.B \-a
Generate output for all IFDs (pages) in the input file.
.TP
.B \-b
Specify the bottom margin for the output (in inches). This does not affect
the height of the printed image.
.TP
.B \-c
Center the image in the output. This option only shows an effect if both
the
.B \-w
and the
.B \-h
option are given.
.TP
.B \-d
Set the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to the specified directory number.
(NB: Directories are numbered starting at zero.)
This option is useful for selecting individual pages in a
multi-page (e.g. facsimile) file.
.TP
.B \-e
Force the generation of Encapsulated \*(Ps (implies
.BR \-z ).
.TP
.B \-h
Specify the vertical size of the printed area (in inches).
.TP
.B \-H
Specify the maximum height of image (in inches). Images with larger sizes will
be split in several pages. Option
.B \-L
may be used for specifying size of split images overlapping.
.TP
.B \-W
Specify the maximum width of image (in inches). Images with larger sizes will
be split in several pages. Options
.B \-L
and 
.B \-W
are mutually exclusive.
.B \-i
Enable/disable pixel interpolation.  This option requires a
single numeric value: zero to disable pixel interpolation and
non-zero to enable.  The default is enabled.
.TP
.B \-L
Specify the size of overlapping for split images (in inches). Used in
conjunction with
.B \-H
option and
.B \-W
option.
.TP
.B \-l
Specify the left margin for the output (in inches). This does not affect
the width of the printed image.
.TP
.B \-m
Where possible render using the
.I imagemask
\*(Ps operator instead of the
.I image
operator.  When this option is specified
.I tiff2ps
will use
.I imagemask
for rendering 1 bit deep images.  If this option is not specified
or if the image depth is greater than 1 then the
.I image
operator is used.
.TP
.B \-o
Set the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to the
.SM IFD
at the specified file offset.
This option is useful for selecting thumbnail images and the
like which are hidden using the
.I SubIFD
tag.
.TP
.B \-p
Force the generation of (non-Encapsulated) \*(Ps.
.TP
.B \-r 90|180|270|auto
Rotate image by 90, 180, 270 degrees or auto.  Auto picks the best
fit for the image on the specified paper size (eg portrait
or landscape) if -h or -w is specified. Rotation is in degrees 
counterclockwise. Auto rotates 90 degrees ccw to produce landscape.
.TP
.B \-s
Generate output for a single IFD (page) in the input file.
.TP
.B \-w
Specify the horizontal size of the printed area (in inches).
.TP
.B \-x
Override resolution units specified in the TIFF as centimeters.
.TP
.B \-y
Override resolution units specified in the TIFF as inches.
.TP
.B \-z
When generating \*(Ps Level 2, data is scaled so that it does not
image into the 
.I deadzone
on a page (the outer margin that the printing device is unable to mark).
This option suppresses this behavior.
When \*(Ps Level 1 is generated, data is imaged to the entire printed
page and this option has no affect.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following generates \*(Ps Level 2 for all pages of a facsimile:
.RS
.nf
tiff2ps \-a2 fax.tif | lpr
.fi
.RE
Note also that if you have version 2.6.1 or newer of Ghostscript then you
can efficiently preview facsimile generated with the above command.
.PP
To generate Encapsulated \*(Ps for a the image at directory 2
of an image use:
.RS
.nf
tiff2ps \-d 1 foo.tif
.fi
.RE
(Notice that directories are numbered starting at zero.)
.PP
If you have a long image, it may be split in several pages:
.RS
.nf
tiff2ps \-h11 \-w8.5 \-H14 \-L.5 foo.tif > foo.ps
.fi
.RE
The page size is set to 8.5x11 by
.B \-w
and
.B \-h
options. We will accept a small amount of vertical compression, so
.B \-H
set to 14. Any pages between 11 and 14 inches will be fit onto one page.
Pages longer than 14 inches are cut off at 11 and continued on the next
page. The
.B \-L.5
option says to repeat a half inch on the next page (to improve readability).
.SH BUGS
Because \*(Ps does not support the notion of a colormap,
8-bit palette images produce 24-bit \*(Ps images.
This conversion results in output that is six times
bigger than the original image and which takes a long time
to send to a printer over a serial line.
Matters are even worse for 4-, 2-, and 1-bit palette images.
.PP
Does not handle tiled images when generating \*(Ps Level I output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pal2rgb (1),
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffcp (1),
.BR tiffgt (1),
.BR tiffmedian (1),
.BR tiff2bw (1),
.BR tiffsv (1),
.BR libtiff (3)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
