.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFCP 1 "February 24, 2007" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
tiffcp \- copy (and possibly convert) a
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffcp
[
.I options
]
.I "src1.tif ... srcN.tif dst.tif"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tiffcp
combines one or more files created according
to the Tag Image File Format, Revision 6.0
into a single
.SM TIFF
file.
Because the output file may be compressed using a different
algorithm than the input files,
.I tiffcp
is most often used to convert between different compression
schemes.
.PP
By default, 
.I tiffcp
will copy all the understood tags in a
.SM TIFF
directory of an input
file to the associated directory in the output file.
.PP
.I tiffcp
can be used to reorganize the storage characteristics of data
in a file, but it is explicitly intended to not alter or convert
the image data content in any way.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " image"
subtract the following monochrome image from all others
processed.  This can be used to remove a noise bias
from a set of images.  This bias image is typically an
image of noise the camera saw with its shutter closed.
.TP
.B \-B
Force output to be written with Big-Endian byte order.
This option only has an effect when the output file is created or
overwritten and not when it is appended to.
.TP
.B \-C
Suppress the use of ``strip chopping'' when reading images
that have a single strip/tile of uncompressed data.
.TP
.B \-c
Specify the compression to use for data written to the output file:
.B none 
for no compression,
.B packbits
for PackBits compression,
.B lzw
for Lempel-Ziv & Welch compression,
.B zip
for Deflate compression,
.B lzma
for LZMA2 compression,
.B jpeg
for baseline JPEG compression,
.B g3
for CCITT Group 3 (T.4) compression,
and
.B g4
for CCITT Group 4 (T.6) compression.
By default
.I tiffcp
will compress data according to the value of the
.I Compression
tag found in the source file.
.IP
The
.SM CCITT
Group 3 and Group 4 compression algorithms can only
be used with bilevel data.
.IP
Group 3 compression can be specified together with several
T.4-specific options:
.B 1d
for 1-dimensional encoding,
.B 2d
for 2-dimensional encoding,
and
.B fill
to force each encoded scanline to be zero-filled so that the
terminating EOL code lies on a byte boundary.
Group 3-specific options are specified by appending a ``:''-separated
list to the ``g3'' option; e.g.
.B "\-c g3:2d:fill"
to get 2D-encoded data with byte-aligned EOL codes.
.IP
.SM LZW, Deflate
and
.SM LZMA2
compression can be specified together with a 
.I predictor
value. A predictor value of 2 causes each scanline of the output image to
undergo horizontal differencing before it is encoded; a value of 1 forces each
scanline to be encoded without differencing. A value 3 is for floating point
predictor which you can use if the encoded data are in floating point format.
LZW-specific options are specified by appending a ``:''-separated list to the
``lzw'' option; e.g.
.B "\-c lzw:2"
for
.SM LZW
compression with horizontal differencing.
.IP
.SM Deflate
and
.SM LZMA2
encoders support various compression levels (or encoder presets) set as
character ``p'' and a preset number. ``p1'' is the fastest one with the worst
compression ratio and ``p9'' is the slowest but with the best possible ratio;
e.g.
.B "\-c zip:3:p9"
for
.SM Deflate
encoding with maximum compression level and floating point predictor.
.TP
.B \-f
Specify the bit fill order to use in writing output data.
By default,
.I tiffcp
will create a new file with the same fill order as the original.
Specifying
.B "\-f lsb2msb"
will force data to be written with the FillOrder tag set to
.SM LSB2MSB,
while
.B "\-f msb2lsb"
will force data to be written with the FillOrder tag set to
.SM MSB2LSB.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore non-fatal read errors and continue processing of the input file.
.TP
.B \-l
Specify the length of a tile (in pixels).
.I tiffcp
attempts to set the tile dimensions so
that no more than 8 kilobytes of data appear in a tile.
.TP
.B \-L
Force output to be written with Little-Endian byte order.
This option only has an effect when the output file is created or
overwritten and not when it is appended to.
.TP
.B \-M
Suppress the use of memory-mapped files when reading images.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify the planar configuration to use in writing image data
that has one 8-bit sample per pixel.
By default,
.I tiffcp
will create a new file with the same planar configuration as
the original.
Specifying
.B "\-p contig"
will force data to be written with multi-sample data packed
together, while
.B "\-p separate"
will force samples to be written in separate planes.
.TP
.B \-r
Specify the number of rows (scanlines) in each strip of data
written to the output file.
By default (or when value
.B 0
is specified),
.I tiffcp
attempts to set the rows/strip
that no more than 8 kilobytes of data appear in a strip. If you specify
special value
.B \-1
it will results in infinite number of the rows per strip. The entire image
will be the one strip in that case.
.TP
.B \-s
Force the output file to be written with data organized in strips
(rather than tiles).
.TP
.B \-t
Force the output file to be written with data organized in tiles (rather than
strips). options can be used to force the resultant image to be written as
strips or tiles of data, respectively.
.TP
.B \-w
Specify the width of a tile (in pixels).
.I tiffcp
attempts to set the tile dimensions so that no more than 8 kilobytes of data
appear in a tile.
.I tiffcp
attempts to set the tile dimensions so that no more than 8 kilobytes of data
appear in a tile.
.TP
.B \-x
Force the output file to be written with PAGENUMBER value in sequence.
.TP
.BI \-,= character
substitute
.I character
for `,' in parsing image directory indices
in files.  This is necessary if filenames contain commas.
Note that
.B \-,=
with whitespace immediately following will disable
the special meaning of the `,' entirely.  See examples.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following concatenates two files and writes the result using 
.SM LZW
encoding:
.RS
.nf
tiffcp \-c lzw a.tif b.tif result.tif
.fi
.RE
.PP
To convert a G3 1d-encoded 
.SM TIFF
to a single strip of G4-encoded data the following might be used:
.RS
.nf
tiffcp \-c g4 \-r 10000 g3.tif g4.tif
.fi
.RE
(1000 is just a number that is larger than the number of rows in
the source file.)

To extract a selected set of images from a multi-image TIFF file, the file
name may be immediately followed by a `,' separated list of image directory
indices.  The first image is always in directory 0.  Thus, to copy the 1st and
3rd images of image file ``album.tif'' to ``result.tif'':
.RS
.nf
tiffcp album.tif,0,2 result.tif
.fi
.RE

A trailing comma denotes remaining images in sequence.  The following command
will copy all image with except the first one:
.RS
.nf
tiffcp album.tif,1, result.tif
.fi
.RE

Given file ``CCD.tif'' whose first image is a noise bias
followed by images which include that bias,
subtract the noise from all those images following it
(while decompressing) with the command:
.RS
.nf
tiffcp \-c none \-b CCD.tif CCD.tif,1, result.tif
.fi
.RE

If the file above were named ``CCD,X.tif'', the
.B \-,=
option would
be required to correctly parse this filename with image numbers,
as follows:
.RS
.nf
tiffcp \-c none \-,=% \-b CCD,X.tif CCD,X%1%.tif result.tif
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pal2rgb (1),
.BR tiffinfo (1),
.BR tiffcmp (1),
.BR tiffmedian (1),
.BR tiffsplit (1),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
