.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH MEMORY 3TIFF "October 15, 1995" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
_TIFFmalloc, \c
_TIFFrealloc, \c
_TIFFfree, \c
_TIFFmemset, \c
_TIFFmemcpy, \c
_TIFFmemcmp, \c
\- memory management-related functions for use with
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.sp
.BI "tdata_t _TIFFmalloc(tsize_t " size ");"
.br
.BI "tdata_t _TIFFrealloc(tdata_t " buffer ", tsize_t " size ");"
.br
.BI "void _TIFFfree(tdata_t " buffer ");"
.br
.BI "void _TIFFmemset(tdata_t " s ", int " c ", tsize_t " n ");"
.br
.BI "void _TIFFmemcpy(tdata_t " dest ", const tdata_t " src ", tsize_t " n ");"
.br
.BI "int _TIFFmemcmp(const tdata_t " s1 ", const tdata_t "s2 ", tsize_t " n ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are provided for writing portable software that uses 
.IR libtiff ;
they hide any memory-management related issues, such as dealing with segmented
architectures found on 16-bit machines.
.PP
.I _TIFFmalloc
and
.I _TIFFrealloc
are used to dynamically allocate and reallocate memory used by 
.IR libtiff ;
such as memory passed into the I/O routines. Memory allocated through these
interfaces is released back to the system using the
.I _TIFFfree
routine.
.PP
Memory allocated through one of the above interfaces can be set to a known
value using
.IR _TIFFmemset ,
copied to another memory location using
.IR _TIFFmemcpy ,
or compared for equality using 
.IR _TIFFmemcmp .
These routines conform to the equivalent
.SM ANSI
C routines: 
.IR memset ,
.IR memcpy ,
and
.IR memcmp ,
repsectively.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR malloc (3),
.BR memory (3),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
