.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFReadTile 3TIFF "December 16, 1991" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
TIFFReadTile \- read and decode a tile of data from an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.sp
.BI "tsize_t TIFFReadTile(TIFF *" tif ", tdata_t " buf ", uint32 " x ", uint32 " y ", uint32 " z ", tsample_t " sample ")"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Return the data for the tile
.I containing
the specified coordinates. The data placed in
.I buf
are returned decompressed and, typically, in the native byte- and
bit-ordering, but are otherwise packed (see further below). The buffer must be
large enough to hold an entire tile of data. Applications should call the
routine
.IR TIFFTileSize
to find out the size (in bytes) of a tile buffer. The
.I x
and
.I y
parameters are always used by
.IR TIFFReadTile .
The
.I z
parameter is used if the image is deeper than 1 slice (\c
.IR ImageDepth >1).
The
.I sample
parameter is used only if data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
.SH NOTES
The library attempts to hide bit- and byte-ordering differences between the
image and the native machine by converting data to the native machine order.
Bit reversal is done if the
.I FillOrder
tag is opposite to the native machine bit order. 16- and 32-bit samples are
automatically byte-swapped if the file was written with a byte order opposite
to the native machine byte order,
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.IR TIFFReadTile
returns \-1 if it detects an error; otherwise the number of bytes in the
decoded tile is returned.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.BR TIFFError (3TIFF)
routine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR TIFFCheckTile (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFComputeTile (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFOpen (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFReadEncodedTile (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFReadRawTile (3TIFF),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF)
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/
